>> Speaker 1: You know what
our language doesn't have?
I mean a lot of things [LAUGH] but
you know what our language
really importantly doesn't have?
The ability to find variables.
>> Speaker 1: So there's a bunch
of ways that we could do this,
we could do it at parse time, absolutely.
And it sometimes might
make sense to do that.
it depends on where you want
to keep that complexity.
Right now I think that
the interesting part for
us is to figure out how this visitor
pattern which I think is super useful.
Because of one of my goals is talking
about the patterns of parsing and
of ASTs and of the visitor pattern.
I don't want to get too much
into like LISP specifics.
We chose LISP because it wasn't going
to be figuring out how to parse a for
loop for four hours.
[LAUGH] But this is not a course on LISP.
This is the course on the tools
that we use to navigate languages.
So LISP has this idea of what
they are called special forms,
cuz it's a very simple language,
that's why we chose it.
And everything's a LISP, but
right now we have the ability
pretty much to execute functions.
Special forms don't really
follow the regular rules and
there's tons of examples of this.
We know that if this language hadn't if
while we thought really a function per se.
It should only be calling one of
those branches, so on so forth.
Defining a variable, it's not,
don't call that second thing,
don't use it as a value.
You're using what we're gonna set in
the environment as the first thing.
And what we're gonna what set it to,
as the second thing.
So the pattern we're gonna take, but
the syntax wise is suspiciously
close to a call expression.
Except we're gonna take
the first argument and
have it be the thing that we set it to.
Take the second argument be
the value that we're setting it.
So we can kind of create a new type
of node using this pattern as well.
So on top of doing large code shifts,
on top of, it can be compiled JavaScript.
We can also add additional
syntax to our language.
So we're gonna give that a shot.
And so what I would imagine this
will look like when we use it,
I'll just type it here for now.
Is we'll have something like,
(define x 2).
You're in charge of your language,
you want to make it an equal sign.
You're gonna have to have
the tokenizer respect equal signs, but
other that that's easy.
Just go and
add an additional role in the tokenizer.
I'm gonna go with (define x 2) where
x is the name of the variable, and
2 will be the value.
All right, so
what happens when that happens?
I need to turn that into a different
kind of node because it's not
a call expression, and
it should not behave like one.
We can make a new variable
declaration kind of node.
So we'll have to transform pretty
much define functions into these
new variable declarations.
And then we're gonna have to
add logic to our execution,
because our evaluator doesn't
know how to deal with that.
It knows about things the value, it knows
about things that are call expressions and
it knows about identifiers.
It doesn't know about what to
do about variable declarations.
And then we're gonna have to play
in the [INAUDIBLE] and see it work,
cuz it's really rewarding.
So let's get into it, cool.
So if we go up into this
idea of special-forms here,
there's not a lot going on.
What I might wanna do is
effectively use it as a visitor.
And so it's gonna be the same
thing that I might do otherwise.
Earlier we saw when we
were looking at parts
evaluate that we had a transform layer.
And this is useful as a place of
after we've created our initial tree,
to do any transformations that
we need to do to the tree.
So we will need to put that
back into parts-and-evaluate.
Let's actually do that now and
then we'll go and do a transform.
And se we put in there and
let's just say transform.
And I like this pipe syntax,
cuz it makes it very clear about the
processes that our language goes through.
It gets tokenize, it gets parsed, it gets
transformed with additional features and
then it gets evaluated.
So we can go into transform, and
you can see we have this right
now it takes the data structure add it,
returns it back out.
Not bad, but this is a great place for
us to do some stuff.
What kind of stuff can
you imagine we are doing?
Well, obviously I kinda spoiled it by
saying we're going to define a variable.
And we can see that we've got
traverse kind of ready to go.
So what we can do in this case is,
we can go ahead and
say, 4 go ahead and
traverse the tree as it comes in.
>> Speaker 1: That's gonna be
that root node in this case.
>> Speaker 1: And
we'll kinda give it a visitor in line.
And we're gonna say when you
come across a call expression,
>> Speaker 1: Enter it.
>> Speaker 1: All right, and
what we'll do is basically kind of
double up on the pattern a little bit.
Which is we care about define you
can see us adding maybe if later or
a lambda syntax or
something along those lines.
You can see us adding additional kind
of special forms that don't follow
the regular rules.
So you're saying these will be, most
of the languages we use have keywords.
Like reserves,
words that you can't name stuff, right?
You can't have a variable called var,
right, in JavaScript.
And so we can have our set of things of,
hey, if you see.
Cuz LISP has a very consistent syntax,
if you see any of these, and
we'll kind of keep them.
It's very similar to how we did
the environment lookups earlier.
We can say if you see anything in here,
intercept and do a thing.
And so it's kind of a general
purpose transformation, so
let's just get that in place.
We can say hey,
I see that this node has a name.
Well, if that name is
inside the specialForms
of [node.name] go ahead and just call
it,
>> Speaker 1: And pass it the node.
>> Speaker 1: So now the transformation's
looking at every call expression.
Now obviously you could add other types of
nodes as you add them to your language,
so on and so forth.
But say check this hash map down here, and
if it is one of the keywords that we have
implemented some special syntax for.
This is gonna be where we kind of
generally purpose do the transformation.
So I decided that I was going
to use define as my syntax.
If you want to use something else,
you can use set, anything you want.
It's your language,
you do what you choose, I chose define.
And so
now that this is a key on this object,
it will hook in to this kind of
general purpose transformation layer.
And what we can do is we can
manipulate a little bit.
So my ideal syntax I'm thinking about is,
so we know that I.
Let's pseudocode this a little bit.
You know that a call
expression has a name and
arguments.
>> Speaker 1: That doesn't
really make sense.
Especially because the name is
gonna be define in this case, so
we already have that spoken for.
And the arguments are gonna be,
the first one is going
to be the variable that
I want to assign, so the assigning value.
I'm gonna call that just
the identifier of the variable and
of what value it should be assigned to.
You get to decide especially if you
have opinions on what your call
target is going to be.
Then you might wanna change
it to something else.
I don't so, I went with this.
So if that word comes in,
I'm gonna say that I wanna have this
thing called a variable declaration.
>> Speaker 1: And that variable
declaration will have like we said before,
an identifier and and an assignment.
And then you can also delete
the properties we don't care about.
When we did those babel
transformations before,
I just left extra properties on there.
Because I knew that babel didn't care.
You've seen the implementation of
the pattern before, we're not checking for
properties that we don't know about.
We're only protecting the properties
that we do care about so
I knew that it was safe
to leave them on there.
But in my language,
I don't need extra crap around so
I'll remove the ones I don't care about.
So we will delete the name and arguments,
we'll add identifier and assignment.
We'll effectively get this new
syntactic form in our language,
that will just be available
all the time everywhere.
So let's go ahead and
we'll say define, and
we'll say we know that we're
getting these out of the arguments.
So I can just kind of use array
to start training syntax.
I can say identifier and
assignment equals node.arguments.
>> Speaker 1: And
then we'll say that the node type is no
longer gonna be a call expression.
>> Speaker 1: It's gonna be
variable declaration, and
the node.identifier,
>> Speaker 1: Is
going to be that identifier.
And the node.assignment will be
that assignment that we pulled off.
All right, cool, and then we will delete
node.name because that's not important
anymore, it's just gonna be defined.
You can keep it if you want.
We'll delete the arguments now
that we're done with them.
>> Speaker 1: So now,
since every single node runs through
the transformation layer.
And this visitors visiting
every single call expression,
now you can just use
this new define syntax.
It's got some problems.
Does anyone know what the problem is?
>> Speaker 1: We don't have any way
to evaluate this new kind of node,
right [LAUGH]?
So that's gonna be slightly problematic.
But every node will come through and
the AST will reflect that we can now
define variables in our language.
We are in complete control
of how this language works.
We can do any other special
syntax that we can conjure up.
We might have to change,
do some transformations.
Or perhaps depending on what you like,
if you wanna use arrow functions.
We didn't include the ability
to collect an arrow.
But you know that you could write the
tokenizer like, hey, if it's a fat arrow.
I see an equal sign,
check if the next one is an angle bracket,
boom, you have an arrow [LAUGH].
And then when you get to
the syntactic parser,
you're like, cool, I'm expecting,
x, y and z out of this.
So you can basically add any features
that you want to this language.